# passingright.github.io
Disclaimer: For Informational Purposes Only. I am not a medical professional. The stories and tips shared on this site are simply a personal history of what did and did not work for my own stool-related health issues. Every body is different, and what helped me may not be right for you. If you choose to try anything you read here, you do so strictly at your own risk. I claim no liability for any injury, illness, loss, or adverse reactions that may result from your reliance on this content. Please consult a qualified doctor or healthcare provider before making any changes to your health routine.

# history / what seemed to help me
I was having some stool-passing-related health struggles where I was facing some recurring constipation for a while and straining / general toilet anxiety. After a few months, things started to stablize. This has been the routine I've since adopted for myself that will likely continue to change:

- I go to bed at a good time and wake up at a good time.
- I eat breakfast 15-60 minutes after waking up.
- I eat around 140g frozen blueberries sometime within the day.
- I sit on the loo 10 minutes after a 30 minute breakfast (1 of 4 equal meals).
- I set an alarm for 6 minutes after sitting down, and try to get off loo within about 1-3 minutes after alarm goes off.
- I wait for actual urge on the toilet, similar to feeling passing gas, but stronger and makes me feel the need to brace stomach and push it out a bit. If I feel reflexive "closing" of muscles, I try not to fret, wait a few moments till the closing urge is died down a bit and push gently. If I have to push hard, I stop pushing and just kind of do small pushes here and there. The blueberries have helped keep the stool soft (this has been very helpful to me as of late).
- A very important toilet technique to me is the breathing. This was a game-changer. I try not to just do "belly breathing" as it seemed to be creating more pressure which could've given a false sense of helping. Instead, I breathe in a way where I feel my rib cage expand. To get a good sense of this, I put my hands on my hips and move them up to my rib cage where I can feel the bone. I breathe in a way where I feel my hands moving apart -- outward. I also feel my rib cage and chest rise and expand in a way. My entire torso feels like it's expanding in a way. This seemed to help me a lot with passing urine more completely and gas too.
- Staying hydrated has help me but not super a ton. There were some times when I think I was overhydrating -- even for extended periods of time. It seemed that in my case, I did not need to be drinking as much water as I thought I did, though I still try to drink a good adequate amount. I generally drink pretty equal amounts of water between each meal and after dinner, with more in the morning and evening, and less in the afternoon.
- I generally repeat this routine after lunch and sometimes after either my 3rd or 4th meal. I allow myself to use the bathroom if I need to between meals, however, I usually use the bathroom basically 5-15 minutes after 1st and 2nd meals. Then sometimes I go a third time in the afternoon or evening but the time changes and in some cases I don't go at all during this time.
